README.md, before:

# `repomate-junit4`, a JUnit 4.12 test runner plugin for `repomate`
This is a plugin for [repomate](https://github.com/slarse/repomate) that runs
JUnit4 test classes on production classes in a cloned student repo.

## Install
The recommended way to install `repomate-junit4` is with `pip`.

```bash
python3 -m pip install --user repomate-junit4
```

The plugin itself does not actually require `repomate`, but it is fairly
useless without. If `repomate` and `repomate-junit4` are both installed in the
same environment, then `repomate` should just find `repomate-junit4`.
For `repomate` to actually use `repomate-junit4`, it must be configured
in the `repomate` configuration file. Refer to the
[`repomate` docs](https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html)
for information on the configuration file and its expected location, and the
[Configuration file](#configuration-file) section here for info on what you
need to add to it.

## Usage

### Terminology and conventions
This is terminology added in excess to that which is defined in the [`repomate`
docs](https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/fundamentals.html#terminology).
For brevity, some conventions expected by `repomate-junit4` are baked into
these definitions.

* _Production class:_ A Java file/class written in the student repo.
* _Test file_: A file ending in `Test.java` which contains a test class for
  some production class. If the students are supposed to write a file called
  `LinkedList.java`, the corresponding test class must be called
  `LinkedListTest.java`.
* _Test dir_: A directory named after a master repo, containing tests for
  student repos based on that master repo. Should contain test files
  as defined above.
* _Reference tests directory (RTD)_: A local directory containing subdirectories
  with reference tests. Each subdirectory should be a test dir as defined above.

### Added CLI arguments
`repomate-junit4` adds four new CLI arguments to the `repomate clone` command.

* `-rtd|--reference-tests-dir`
    - Path to the RTD.
    - **Required** unless specified in the configuration file.
* `-ham|--hamcrest-path`
    - Path to the `hamcrest-core-1.3.jar` library.
    - **Required** unless specified on the `CLASSPATH` variable, or in the
      configuration file.
* `-junit|--junit-path`
    - Path to the `junit-4.12.jar` library.
    - **Required** unless specified on the `CLASSPATH` variable, or in the
      configuration file.
* `-i|--ignore-tests`
    - A whitespace separated list of test files (e.g. `LinkedListTest.java`) to
    ignore. This is useful for example if there are abstract test classes in
    the test dir.

### Configuration file
First and foremost, `junit4` must be added to the `plugins` option under the
`[DEFAULTS]` section in order to activate the plugin,
[see details here](https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/plugins.html#using-existing-plugins).
The `--hamcrest-path`, `--junit-path` and `--reference-tests-dir` arguments can
be configured in the standard
[`repomate` configuration file](https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html)
by adding the `[junit4]` section heading. Example:

```bash
[DEFAULTS]
plugins = junit4

[junit4]
reference_tests_dir = /absolute/path/to/rtd
junit_path = /absolute/path/to/junit-4.12.jar
hamcrest_path = /absolute/path/to/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar
```

> **Important:** All of the paths in the config must be absolute for
> `repomate-junit4` to behave as expected.

Commit message:

Add info about non-Python dependencies, fix #4

README.md, after:

# `repomate-junit4`, a JUnit 4.12 test runner plugin for `repomate`
This is a plugin for [repomate](https://github.com/slarse/repomate) that runs
JUnit4 test classes on production classes in a cloned student repo.

## Requirements
`repomate-junit4` has a few non-Python dependencies.

1. `java` must ba available from the command line.
2. `javac` must be available from the command line.
    - In other words, install a `JDK` version that is compatible with the files
    you intend to test!
3. `junit-4.12.jar` must be available on the `CLASSPATH` variable, or configured
    (see [Added CLI arguments](#added-cli-arguments) and
    [Configuration file](#configuration-file)).
4. `hamcrest-core-1.3.jar` must be available on the `CLASSPATH` variable or
   configured in order to make use of `hamcrest` matchers.

> **Note:** `hamcrest-core-1.3.jar` will be removed as a strict dependency in
> the next release, as it is technically not required to run JUnit4 test
> classes.

The `hamcrest` and `junit` jars ar available from Maven Central:

```bash
wget http://central.maven.org/maven2/junit/junit/4.12/junit-4.12.jar
wget http://central.maven.org/maven2/org/hamcrest/hamcrest-core/1.3/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar
```

## Install
The recommended way to install `repomate-junit4` is with `pip`.

```bash
python3 -m pip install --user repomate-junit4
```

The plugin itself does not actually require `repomate`, but it is fairly
useless without. If `repomate` and `repomate-junit4` are both installed in the
same environment, then `repomate` should just find `repomate-junit4`.
For `repomate` to actually use `repomate-junit4`, it must be configured
in the `repomate` configuration file. Refer to the
[`repomate` docs](https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html)
for information on the configuration file and its expected location, and the
[Configuration file](#configuration-file) section here for info on what you
need to add to it.

## Usage

### Terminology and conventions
This is terminology added in excess to that which is defined in the [`repomate`
docs](https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/fundamentals.html#terminology).
For brevity, some conventions expected by `repomate-junit4` are baked into
these definitions.

* _Production class:_ A Java file/class written in the student repo.
* _Test file_: A file ending in `Test.java` which contains a test class for
  some production class. If the students are supposed to write a file called
  `LinkedList.java`, the corresponding test class must be called
  `LinkedListTest.java`.
* _Test dir_: A directory named after a master repo, containing tests for
  student repos based on that master repo. Should contain test files
  as defined above.
* _Reference tests directory (RTD)_: A local directory containing subdirectories
  with reference tests. Each subdirectory should be a test dir as defined above.

### Added CLI arguments
`repomate-junit4` adds four new CLI arguments to the `repomate clone` command.

* `-rtd|--reference-tests-dir`
    - Path to the RTD.
    - **Required** unless specified in the configuration file.
* `-junit|--junit-path`
    - Path to the `junit-4.12.jar` library.
    - **Required** unless specified on the `CLASSPATH` variable, or in the
      configuration file.
* `-ham|--hamcrest-path`
    - Path to the `hamcrest-core-1.3.jar` library.
    - **Required** unless specified on the `CLASSPATH` variable, or in the
      configuration file.
* `-i|--ignore-tests`
    - A whitespace separated list of test files (e.g. `LinkedListTest.java`) to
    ignore. This is useful for example if there are abstract test classes in
    the test dir.

### Configuration file
First and foremost, `junit4` must be added to the `plugins` option under the
`[DEFAULTS]` section in order to activate the plugin,
[see details here](https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/plugins.html#using-existing-plugins).
The `--hamcrest-path`, `--junit-path` and `--reference-tests-dir` arguments can
be configured in the standard
[`repomate` configuration file](https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html)
by adding the `[junit4]` section heading. Example:

```bash
[DEFAULTS]
plugins = junit4

[junit4]
reference_tests_dir = /absolute/path/to/rtd
junit_path = /absolute/path/to/junit-4.12.jar
hamcrest_path = /absolute/path/to/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar
```

> **Important:** All of the paths in the config must be absolute for
> `repomate-junit4` to behave as expected.
