docs/usage.rst, before:

.. _usage:

Usage
*****

Terminology and conventions
---------------------------
``repomate-junit4`` adds some additional terminology to Repomate that you need
to be familiar with to fully understand the rest of the documentation.

- **Production class:** A Java file/class in the student repo (written by the
  student).
- **Test class:** A Java file/class ending in ``Test.java`` containing tests
  for a namesake production class. Test classes are paired with production
  classes by simply appending ``Test`` to the production class name. For
  example, ``LinkedList.java`` would have a test class called
  ``LinkedListTest.java``.
- **Test directory:** A directory named after a master repo, containing tests
  for the assignments in that repo.
- **Reference tests directory (RTD):** A directory containing test directories
  (as defined above).

See the :ref:`use case` for a more detailed look at how all of this fits
together.

.. _cli:

CLI arguments
-------------

``repomate-junit4`` adds several new CLI arguments to the ``repomate clone``
command.

* ``-rtd|--reference-tests-dir``
    - Path to the RTD.
    - Can be specified in the configuration file with the
      ``reference_test_dir`` option.
    - **Required** unless specified in the configuration file.
* ``-junit|--junit-path``
    - Path to the ``junit-4.12.jar`` library.
    - Picked up automatically if on the ``CLASSPATH`` environment variable.
    - Can be specified in the configuration file with the
      ``junit_path`` option.
    - **Required** unless specified on the ``CLASSPATH`` variable, or in the
      configuration file.
* ``-ham|--hamcrest-path``
    - Path to the ``hamcrest-core-1.3.jar`` library.
    - Picked up automatically if on the ``CLASSPATH`` environment variable.
    - Can be specified in the configuration file with the
      ``hamcrest_path`` option.
    - **Required** unless specified on the ``CLASSPATH`` variable, or in the
      configuration file.
* ``-i|--ignore-tests``
    - A whitespace separated list of test files (e.g. ``LinkedListTest.java``) to
      ignore.
* ``--disable-security``
    - Disable the security policy.
* ``-v|--verbose``
    - Display more verbose information (currently only concerns test failures).
    - Long lines are truncated.
* ``-vv|--very-verbose``
    - Same as ``-v``, but without truncation.

.. _use case:

Example use case
----------------
Assume that we have a master repo called *fibonacci* with an assignment to
implement a method that returns the n:th Fibonacci number. The master repo
could then look like this:

.. code-block:: bash

   fibonacci
   ├── README.md
   └── src
       └── Fibo.java

To be able to test the students' implementations, we write a test class
``FiboTest.java`` and put it in our reference tests directory, in a test
directory named after the master repository. The reference test directory would
then look like this.

.. code-block:: bash

   reference_tests
   └── fibonacci
       └── FiboTest.java

.. note::

   I strongly recommend having the reference tests in version control.

Now, assume that we have students *ham*, *spam* and *eggs*, and their student
repos *ham-fibonacci*, *spam-fibonacci* and *eggs-fibonacci*. Assuming that the
JUnit4 and Hamcrest jars have been configured as suggested in :ref:`config`,
and that the basic Repomate arguments are configured (see the `Repomate config
docs`_), we can run ``repomate clone`` with ``repomate-junit4`` activated like
this:

.. code-block:: none

   $ repomate -p junit4 clone -mn fibonacci -s ham spam eggs -rtd /path/to/reference_tests
   [INFO] cloning into student repos ...
   [INFO] Cloned into https://some-enterprise-host/some-course-org/inda-18/ham-fibonacci
   [INFO] Cloned into https://some-enterprise-host/some-course-org/inda-18/spam-fibonacci
   [INFO] Cloned into https://some-enterprise-host/some-course-org/inda-18/eggs-fibonacci
   [INFO] executing post clone hooks on repos
   [INFO] executing post clone hooks on eggs-fibonacci
   [INFO] executing post clone hooks on spam-fibonacci
   [INFO] executing post clone hooks on ham-fibonacci
   [INFO]
   hook results for spam-fibonacci

   junit4: SUCCESS
   Status.SUCCESS: Test class FiboTest passed!


   hook results for eggs-fibonacci


   junit4: ERROR
   Status.ERROR: multiple production classes found for FiboTest.java


   hook results for ham-fibonacci

   junit4: ERROR
   Status.ERROR: Test class FiboTest failed 1 tests


   [INFO] post clone hooks done

.. note::

   The output is color coded when displayed in a terminal.


Let's digest what happened here. We provided the master repo name (``-mn
fibonacci``) and the reference tests directory (``-rtd
/path/to/reference_tests``). ``repomate-junit4`` then looked in the test
directory matching the master repo name (i.e. *fibonacci*) test directory and
found a test class ``FiboTest.java``. By the naming convention, it knows that
it should now look for a file called ``Fibo.java`` in the student repos.  The
following then happened when testing the repos:

- *spam-fibonacci:* The production class ``Fibo.java`` was found and passed the
  test class.
- *eggs-fibonacci:* Multiple files called ``Fibo.java`` were found, and
  ``repomate-junit4`` did not know which one to use.
  - Duplicate class names are only allowed if their fully qualified names
  differ (i.e. the classes are in different packages).  If production code is
  supposed to be packaged, the test classes must also be packaged (in the
  same package).
- *ham-fibonacci:* The production class ``Fibo.java`` was found, but failed one
  of the tests.
  - Running the same command again with ``-v`` or ``-vv`` would display which
  test failed, and why.

Other common causes of errors include:

- No production class found for a test class.
- Compile error.
- Security policy violation.
   - See :ref:`security`.

This concludes the use case example, I hope you found it enlightening.

.. _Repomate config docs: https://repomate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html#configuration-file

Commit message:

Rename package to repobee-junit4 (#45)

docs/usage.rst, after:

.. _usage:

Usage
*****

Terminology and conventions
---------------------------
``repobee-junit4`` adds some additional terminology to RepoBee that you need
to be familiar with to fully understand the rest of the documentation.

- **Production class:** A Java file/class in the student repo (written by the
  student).
- **Test class:** A Java file/class ending in ``Test.java`` containing tests
  for a namesake production class. Test classes are paired with production
  classes by simply appending ``Test`` to the production class name. For
  example, ``LinkedList.java`` would have a test class called
  ``LinkedListTest.java``.
- **Test directory:** A directory named after a master repo, containing tests
  for the assignments in that repo.
- **Reference tests directory (RTD):** A directory containing test directories
  (as defined above).

See the :ref:`use case` for a more detailed look at how all of this fits
together.

.. _cli:

CLI arguments
-------------

``repobee-junit4`` adds several new CLI arguments to the ``repobee clone``
command.

* ``-rtd|--reference-tests-dir``
    - Path to the RTD.
    - Can be specified in the configuration file with the
      ``reference_test_dir`` option.
    - **Required** unless specified in the configuration file.
* ``-junit|--junit-path``
    - Path to the ``junit-4.12.jar`` library.
    - Picked up automatically if on the ``CLASSPATH`` environment variable.
    - Can be specified in the configuration file with the
      ``junit_path`` option.
    - **Required** unless specified on the ``CLASSPATH`` variable, or in the
      configuration file.
* ``-ham|--hamcrest-path``
    - Path to the ``hamcrest-core-1.3.jar`` library.
    - Picked up automatically if on the ``CLASSPATH`` environment variable.
    - Can be specified in the configuration file with the
      ``hamcrest_path`` option.
    - **Required** unless specified on the ``CLASSPATH`` variable, or in the
      configuration file.
* ``-i|--ignore-tests``
    - A whitespace separated list of test files (e.g. ``LinkedListTest.java``) to
      ignore.
* ``--disable-security``
    - Disable the security policy.
* ``-v|--verbose``
    - Display more verbose information (currently only concerns test failures).
    - Long lines are truncated.
* ``-vv|--very-verbose``
    - Same as ``-v``, but without truncation.

.. _use case:

Example use case
----------------
Assume that we have a master repo called *fibonacci* with an assignment to
implement a method that returns the n:th Fibonacci number. The master repo
could then look like this:

.. code-block:: bash

   fibonacci
   ├── README.md
   └── src
       └── Fibo.java

To be able to test the students' implementations, we write a test class
``FiboTest.java`` and put it in our reference tests directory, in a test
directory named after the master repository. The reference test directory would
then look like this.

.. code-block:: bash

   reference_tests
   └── fibonacci
       └── FiboTest.java

.. note::

   I strongly recommend having the reference tests in version control.

Now, assume that we have students *ham*, *spam* and *eggs*, and their student
repos *ham-fibonacci*, *spam-fibonacci* and *eggs-fibonacci*. Assuming that the
JUnit4 and Hamcrest jars have been configured as suggested in :ref:`config`,
and that the basic RepoBee arguments are configured (see the `RepoBee config
docs`_), we can run ``repobee clone`` with ``repobee-junit4`` activated like
this:

.. code-block:: none

   $ repobee -p junit4 clone -mn fibonacci -s ham spam eggs -rtd /path/to/reference_tests
   [INFO] cloning into student repos ...
   [INFO] Cloned into https://some-enterprise-host/some-course-org/inda-18/ham-fibonacci
   [INFO] Cloned into https://some-enterprise-host/some-course-org/inda-18/spam-fibonacci
   [INFO] Cloned into https://some-enterprise-host/some-course-org/inda-18/eggs-fibonacci
   [INFO] executing post clone hooks on repos
   [INFO] executing post clone hooks on eggs-fibonacci
   [INFO] executing post clone hooks on spam-fibonacci
   [INFO] executing post clone hooks on ham-fibonacci
   [INFO]
   hook results for spam-fibonacci

   junit4: SUCCESS
   Status.SUCCESS: Test class FiboTest passed!


   hook results for eggs-fibonacci


   junit4: ERROR
   Status.ERROR: multiple production classes found for FiboTest.java


   hook results for ham-fibonacci

   junit4: ERROR
   Status.ERROR: Test class FiboTest failed 1 tests


   [INFO] post clone hooks done

.. note::

   The output is color coded when displayed in a terminal.


Let's digest what happened here. We provided the master repo name (``-mn
fibonacci``) and the reference tests directory (``-rtd
/path/to/reference_tests``). ``repobee-junit4`` then looked in the test
directory matching the master repo name (i.e. *fibonacci*) test directory and
found a test class ``FiboTest.java``. By the naming convention, it knows that
it should now look for a file called ``Fibo.java`` in the student repos.  The
following then happened when testing the repos:

- *spam-fibonacci:* The production class ``Fibo.java`` was found and passed the
  test class.
- *eggs-fibonacci:* Multiple files called ``Fibo.java`` were found, and
  ``repobee-junit4`` did not know which one to use.
  - Duplicate class names are only allowed if their fully qualified names
  differ (i.e. the classes are in different packages).  If production code is
  supposed to be packaged, the test classes must also be packaged (in the
  same package).
- *ham-fibonacci:* The production class ``Fibo.java`` was found, but failed one
  of the tests.
  - Running the same command again with ``-v`` or ``-vv`` would display which
  test failed, and why.

Other common causes of errors include:

- No production class found for a test class.
- Compile error.
- Security policy violation.
   - See :ref:`security`.

This concludes the use case example, I hope you found it enlightening.

.. _RepoBee config docs: https://repobee.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html#configuration-file
